- yen this was the channel that more
than six months ago was already pointing
out that Joe vegans project was doomed
to fail you get mad at the audience you
get mad at your donors and you blame
them
instead of shouldering the
responsibility yourself Joe it is
nobody's fault but yours you made no
effort at all to make this project seem
credible to anyone aside from yourself
and that's why only idiots supported
your project
Joe idiots the new yen sure Lauren they
wanted to start an animal sanctuary
which is a very very good cause it's
going to help animals they want to start
a beautiful project and they have these
dreams and hopes and now these dreams
and hopes got kind of crushed I've said
it before and I'll say it again I have
to ask my fellow vegans all the time
compared to any other social movement in
the history of the world who has
suffered less especially when you are in
that situation yourself reality hits you
and often then you start to realize what
you kind of put on your shoulders to do
and how hard it is and that is what
happens they kind of realized it would
put them in financial ruin to do that
it's easy to feel sorry for yourself
it's easy to feel that your sorrow and
your suffering and your heartbreak is
the most important thing in the world
that it blots everything else out but
when you compare veganism to any other
struggle for social change the
emancipation of slaves the civil rights
movements even struggles like trying to
get you know cancer labeling on
cigarettes trying to get seatbelts in
every car Mothers Against Drunk Driving
try to change the culture of alcohol the
laws surrounding alcohol consumption and
I'm driving trying to save lives all of
those social movements have involved
suffering Amil the people involved at
some kind of spirit of self-sacrifice
and public service that is utterly
lacking in digital veganism today now I
don't know to what extent that's because
the internet only features a certain
kind of person with certain traits and
characteristics and I don't know to what
extent it reflects the reality of the
people who are vegans today in the
english-speaking world so things just
went downhill all of a sudden they had
that hope and dream and they thought
everything would kind of work out
because as a drama channel they did get
more support which is another thing I
want to talk about later but basically
it didn't work out and then they had to
announce that you know they couldn't go
through with the project keeping all the
way real my experience with vegans who
are offline vegans who I met at real
activist events organizing protests and
that kind of thing they were worse they
will heap it worse than the people on
YouTube way worse way worse and people I
just tried to get in touch with via
Facebook that way and stuff people voted
direct action everywhere they were way
worse and the academics the people with
PhDs going to going to animal rights
conferences formal academic aver they're
worse - honestly yeah I don't even want
to I don't I don't want to criticize my
fellow YouTube vegans unjustly because
of any type of vegan but they're the
best and I think that the best is
because they're the people who have the
kind of presence of mind and
self-discipline necessary to put
together their thoughts on camera share
them with the world
engage with an audience hear criticism
ask ask tough questions give tough
answers sure those are character traits
that are really positive and a lot of
the people you meet with PhDs in
academia are lacking in all of them and
a lot of people are going to meet the
sitting around the table trying to
organize a protest they're inviting so
I've got to give credit they're actually
the vegans I've known through YouTube
are the best of the best but basically
they wanted to establish with the
support of the figured YouTube community
they taught as our project progresses
people are going to be donating more and
if you will building more sustainable
like some people gave a lot of money on
these lawsuits and things that are going
on and then something like this doesn't
get traction but still this is a strange
contrast for me of my life
I mean I've got a quotation here from
Yoshiaki I'm not going to read it out I
guess but if you read this any of this
kind of literature from the historical
struggles of Communists tremendous
capacity for self-sacrifice okay and
people who knew what it was like to live
in really rough conditions for decades
because that was the struggle okay
living in a cave what have you right and
I look at a statement like this from Joe
vegan this is Joe vegan in his official
i'msorry message that he was cancelling
the project and indeed he was quitting
his involvement veganism entirely was
going back to eating meat and animal
products okay all I see here is
self-pity
and a tendency to blame others refusal
to take responsibility for his own
failure self-indulgence absolutely no
sense of an ethic of public service of
self-sacrifice and I have to ask again
compared to any other social movement
who has suffered less and someone said
it's not either/or or it's not either
the lawsuits for but a project for a lot
of people it is because a lot of people
decide only to support the lawsuit for
example of course there are also other
people other causes that people may be
supporting I don't know but it's for
everyone themselves to look at
yourselves what you support in this
world why and maybe if you might have
made another better decision so I hope a
journal Oran they should focus not on
their family of course they should focus
on their own mental health their
financial status they would be in group
they would be ruined of you who would go
they were involved to buy that land and
start it but they stalled because they
realized it would ruin them it would
ruin them they couldn't go ahead we've
all suffered Joe I've suffered veganism
has brought negative things in my life
too the internet is
I've suffered sure but compared to
somebody in the civil rights movement
compared to somebody in any movement for
social change even for cultural change
even compared to artists even compared
to what actors in the live theater go
through or painters teachers trying to
assign new and innovative merits those
people suffer too and they suffer way
more than I do and they suffer way more
than you do Joe they do at one point
miss Joe says Joe says so what at the
last minute he was just about to go
through with the final legal procedures
to complete the sale of the property and
we were in such a terrible place
mentally and physically you rent you're
in a terrible place Joe it was too much
pressure for you to make comedy videos
on YouTube see quitting that you're in a
terrible place we went to cave we're
gonna cave Joe that where you were
because in Laos I knew people who lived
in caves and they lived in caves because
the US Army was dropping bombs in their
village the US Army was sending attack
helicopters to shoot farmers dead in
their fields and I knew one woman and
she literally went through school that
way they set up a blackboard in the cave
and she studied her lessons with chalk
and blackboard literally in a cave in
the mountains on the border between Laos
Vietnam that was so she survived the war
okay I'm not a communist I'm not a
communist sympathizer but I can still
recognize in those people this sense of
self-sacrifice of dedication and look
guys we all just need to keep our
suffering in perspective here whether
you do that relative to the suffering of
the animals well you think yeah you know
what coming on YouTube and talking about
my feelings is hard is really hard but
it's all I say it's hard okay but you
know what the pigs are going through
every day during their whole lives on a
concrete floor a sow that gives birth on
a concrete floor and as piglets sucking
from artistic cardboard this is real
life in a world constructed out of
nothing but steel and concrete
until one day a human being comes along
and slits their throat and they die I
mean the death in many ways is not the
worst part of this process okay it is
the lives of these animals are constant
suffering they are born just to suffer
and die okay relative to that all of us
are going through nothing but relative
to the type of suffering that leaders
and followers in every other political
program have gone through you know come
on Joe see it in perspective you think
you think this is tough you know you
think as I said quote after being so
wholeheartedly focused on seemingly
every other living being on this planet
other than ourselves
quite frankly we have been driven mental
and forced to make the decision look at
results really Joe really people saying
all people should get a patreon money
back no I don't think so everyone who is
on their patron I don't I haven't heard
anyone wanting their money back I don't
want my money back we thought it would
grow over time and then eventually they
would have enough money each month to
kind of help with the animal sanctuary
and volunteers there were already people
who are going to go as volunteers and
[ __ ] like that but it didn't work out
like that because people I don't know
some people like that their priorities I
don't know I thought you meant arian
work I knew what it was like when I was
giving laws I woke up in the morning I
chopped firewood with an axe and I
boiled yellow lentils over the fire that
was all ate all day nothing literally
nothing but a vitamin pill white rice
and yellow lentils and you know doing
humanitarian work I mean it's not
comfortable but I don't feel served
myself was a wonderful opportunity I
look back at it I you know I feel glad
that I had the opportunity to endure
that and I did a little little bit to
make the world a better place even
though I did I did suffer terribly I'm
not going to tell the whole story but
yeah sure but I mean you know your job
is to come on the internet and make
comedy videos that was how Joe vegan got
famous
we got is a little bit of Fame and how
we got these donors donating money then
you quit doing that and you decide you
were too nothing else you were just
going to devote yourself to creating a
permaculture farm you did a terrible job
of that you you [ __ ] up you was nobody
else's fault but yours nobodies okay
from the planning stages forward you
sabotage that's what you made it
non-credit nobody else's fault for yours
man and and you know this is the level
of self-pity this is the level of
delusion you get from the guy that his
problem is he's been focused on every
other being on the planet and not and
not on himself
I don't know Joe to me it's not credible
just like your whole crazy plan to run a
farm Sanctuary never was great and they
had these dreams and hopes and now the
these dreams and hopes got kind of
crushed I think it's such a beautiful
project to support and with enough money
I'm volunteering it would have worked if
there's one thing I want to make clear
above all else it's that this project
never could have been successful it
never was credible Joe never even did
the math he never answered earnest
down-to-earth reasonable questions like
how was he going to take care of even
one horse with a total budget of only
$600 per month just one horse can cost
you much more than that look at the
veterinary care cost look at the food
costs look at the labor involved it was
ridiculous
this was a farce from day one and you
know it's not nice to come on the
internet and call people idiots it's not
I totally recognize why my channel has
so many fewer viewers than other
channels where people just put on a
bikini and sell you a dream of weight
loss and health and good times or people
just go to the grocery store and tell
you about the great new vegan products
device I understand okay but this was
the channel that more than six months
ago was already pointing out that Joe
vegans project was doomed to fail
was it a scam I'm not hung up on the
word scam a lot of people say
intentionally misleading things when
they're doing fundraising so called the
vegan activist promises that if you
donate five dollars to him he's going to
convert one person to veganism per month
really so if I donate $50 are you going
to come back with proof at the end of
every month of 10 new people who've been
converted to because nobody can deliver
on that promise
nobody those are false and misleading
promises people make on patreon and
that's got to stop but it is hilarious
to me that in his self-pity and
self-indulgence Joe vegan point the
finger over here the one channel that an
open mind away said look Joe why don't
you come on discuss this because you
know what if I want to donate to a
sanctuary I've got options
I've got choices all over the world
there are credible real sanctuaries
operating they're not operated by idiots
like you Joe they're not they're
operated by people who have a degree in
business like an MBA maybe they have an
MPA masters of public administration so
they know how to run a non-profit they
know to run a charity they have people
on a team coming together who have a
background in farming actual experience
with agriculture with Morgan who no
one's liked to bale hay and no one's
like a muck out the stables does not
work anyone wants to do for free call it
volunteering or not that's hard horrible
work they work with people who come up
with cost projections who know the
meaning of fancy terms like project
management operating costs capital costs
feasibility study okay they know how to
make a credible case for a charity a
donor has options Joe they can choose to
give money to someone who actually
speaks Portuguese fluently who's going
to open this project in Portugal instead
of you okay you made no effort at all to
make this project seem credible to
anyone aside from yourself and that's
why only idiots supported your project
Joe idiots and you Joe were too stupid
and too cowardly and too lazy and too
self-indulgent to even talk these issues
through when your job was coming on the
internet and talking about vegan issues
okay Joe it doesn't feel good it doesn't
give me a kick to
come on here and call you an idiot it
doesn't okay but stupidity is real and
when stupid people are in positions of
leadership there are terrible
consequences there are terrible
consequences for other people and you
were going to be in charge of animals
there would have been terrible
consequences for the animals as well
okay Joe so if you want to point the
finger over here as you have done and
say that it's it's a terrible thing that
people were willing to donate so much
money to a legal fund in just one day
which is the truth I reached my donation
targets in less than 48 hours when I did
a fund raiser Joe and Joe complains that
he raised less money than me I raised
more money in one day than he raised in
a whole year for his project why do you
think that is Joe you had a much bigger
audience tonight if you had way more
fans why do you think that is you're so
totally lacking in the capacity to
examine your own failures that you think
this just reflects some irrational
insanity in your own arse you get mad at
the audience you get mad at your donors
and you blame them instead of
shouldering the responsibility yourself
Joe it is nobody's fault but yours
okay all those thoughts all those crazy
thoughts you had those crazy misgivings
you had about making the financial
commitment the day you are at the bank
and signing this paperwork as you tell
the story yourself those are the
thoughts you should have had back at
phase one step one when you're doing the
feasibility study and the crazy thoughts
you've had now now that you quit
veganism that maybe veganism doesn't
make sense after all those thoughts you
should have had long long before you
reached out to an audience and asked
them to trust you okay because you have
abused the trust the audience you made
promises you couldn't deliver on you
couldn't even keep the promise to
maintain a vegan diet in your own
household okay
you've failed on so many levels Joe and
yes I do think ultimately the reason for
that failure is just your stupidity i
buy this yen